
# Connectors

Lava provides a mechanism to assist with connections to external resources to
minimise the need for individual jobs to manage connectivity details and
credentials. This also simplifies the process of migrating jobs from one
environment or lava realm to another.

Configuration information for connection handlers (aka *connectors*) is stored
in the [connections table](#the-connections-table). The required
fields are dependent on the connector type.

!!! note
    Loosely speaking, a **connector** is a handler for a specific type of resource
    and a **connection** is an instance of a connector for a specific instance of
    a resource.

    It probably doesn't matter that much and, historically, the user guide has
    played fast and loose with this distinction.

The underlying implementation of connectors is specific to the type of
target resource and the job type. Lava attempts to provide a connection handle
to jobs in a form that is relatively native to the job type. For example, a
database connection for an [sql](#job-type-sql) job is provided
as a Python DBAPI 2.0 connection instance. For an
[exe](#job-type-exe) or [pkg](#job-type-pkg)
job, it is provided as a command line wrapper that handles credential management
and connectivity behind the scenes.

Connector credentials are typically stored in the AWS SSM Parameter Store to
provide a level of isolation and security. SSM parameters for a given realm
should be stored with parameter names starting with `/lava/<REALM>/`.

Connectors are implemented using a simple plugin architecture and new ones can
be added relatively easily.
